To best understand what a component lifecycle
hook is, lets open up the angular documentation
and navigate over to developer guide and then
we’ll click on lifecycle hooks.
Angular defines lifecycle hooks as a lifecycle
managed by Angular itself.
Angular creates it, renders it, creates and
renders its children, checks when its databound
properties change, and destroys it before
removing it from the DOM.
Angular offers component lifecycle hooks that
give us visibility into these key moments
and the ability to act when they occur.
So basically, angular creates our components,
and then it builds the child components, then
it watches for any changes made to our properties.
And finally removes them from the DOM.
Angular gives us access to each one of these
points in time – and that’s what we’re
using lifecycle hooks for.
If we scroll down a bit under lifecycle sequence,
here we can see the order angular uses for
each one of these hooks.
These first 2, ngOnChanges and ngOnInit are
the ones that you’ll be seeing most commonly
used inside of any angular applications.
The others here are used before and after
initializing child components.
When using lifecycle hooks, we use OnInit
to perform any component initialization after
Angular has initialized the data bound properties.
We’ll use OnChanges to perform some action
when a databound input property value has
changed.
And you’ll also see OnDestroy being used
to perform clean up within our components.
Now lets take a look at how implement lifecycle
hooks.
I’m using the word implement here because
these lifecycle hooks are all Interfaces.
So when using any one of these hooks there
are 3 steps.
The first thing we do is we add in our hook
name in our list of imports.
And they’re are located in angular core
library, so we can add a comma next to Component
and then add our OnInit lifecycle hook in
this example.
Next, we need implement our hook just like
we do any other interface by saying that our
component class implements the hook of our
choice, which in this case is OnInit.
And finally, we can use ngOnInit method to
perform some function within our class.
And just to further clarify, OnInit is the
name of our interface and ngOnInit is the
name of a method that’s defined within the
interface.
Now lets go ahead and work through a few examples
including each one of these lifecycle hooks
in our application.